.TH SETPUP 3G OCLSC
.SH NAME
.B setpup
\- sets the display characteristics of a given pop up menu entry
.SH "C SPECIFICATION"
.B void setpup(pup, entry, mode)
.br
.B long pup, entry;
.br
.B unsigned long mode;
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I pup
expects the menu identifier of the menu whose entries you want to
change. The menu identifier is the returned function value of the
menu creation call to either
.B newpup
or
.BR defpup .
.TP
.I entry
expects the position of the entry in the menu, indexed from 1.
.TP
.I mode
expects a symbolic constant that indicates the display
characteristics you want to apply to the chosen entry.  For this
parameter there are two defined symbolic constants:

.BR PUP_NONE ,
no special display characteristics, fully functional if
selected. This is the default mode for newly created menu
entries.

.BR PUP_GREY ,
entry is greyed-out and disabled.  Selecting a greyed-out
entry has the same behavior as selecting the title bar.  If
the greyed-out entry has a submenu associated with it, that
submenu does not display.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use
.B setpup
to alter the display characteristics of a pop up menu entry.
Currently, you use this routine to disable and grey-out a menu entry.

.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example that disables a single entry:

.nf
.ft C
menu = newpup();
addtopup(menu,"menu %t |item 1 |item 2 |item 3 |item 4",0);
setpup(menu, 1, PUP_GREY);
.ft R
.fi

Subsequent calls of
.B dopup(menu)
would display the menu with the menu entry labeled ``item 1'' is greyed out,
and never gets a return value of 1.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
addtopup, changepup, defpup, dopup, freepup, newpup
.SH NOTE
This routine is available only in immediate mode.
